# CS340_Proj2-MarkMulder

1. How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?

Maintainable code is hard to write, especially while writing code. TO do so, it must be made testable, readable, and understandable to be able to be easily maintained, updated, and modified. To do this, code should be modular and well documented, helping build on a program without having to rewrite things all the time. Obtaining eadability means a logical order in your code, not functions haphazardly created when remembered.

2. How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?

 I would approach a problem by looking at the desired outcome and first determining the tools I would need to get there. Then, I would build the most base-level tools first, and then build the code that relies on those low level functions. This class was my first time using databases to this extent. It was frustrating, yet interesting to build a database, build the CRUD module, and then use that to build the interactive page. Before, i would have used arrays and lists to store data, but in larger projects, that can be taxing on the program and have a higher risk of data loss. I will use techniques learned here, and those I will learn in my future training to properly do my job in the USMC as a cyberspace operater.

3. What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?

Computer scientists solve problems. They develop software that can process data at speeds that humans simply cannot achieve manually and do precise calculations that are cumbersome and prone to error. What they build heps people, governments, and businesses. Computer scientists and there work are the foundation of the modern world wide international market and social networks. Without computers and computer scientists, computer entertainment would not exist, video games and animations would be gone, and simple things like adding up the number of employees or calculating taxes would take hours instead of seconds and be far more prone to error. THis goes the same for Grazioso. Adding up and researching the dog breeds would take far longer by hand than computer.
